MEMORUNDUM

Date: 01/19/2014
To: Students from Engineering Department
From: Xiaocheng Zhang
Subject: Nanoelectronics, the future of electronic technology

Introduction: what is nanoelectronics and why is it so important 
In June 2015, the DARPA Robotic Challenge, a robot competition held by Google Company that tasks robots to do designated human movement challenges such as walking and door opening, has drawn the world’s attention. Most robots didn’t finish their challenges and left some hilarious performances. Even those who did finish their challenges, their movements weren’t even close or as fluent as us humans’. After this robotic competition, someone has been asking, why is something seems so easy for humans to finish would take forever for those robots? The answer is simple: human’s body and neuro structure is way more complex than the robots’. If a robot with human’s size and shape that can do all the movements human does is desired, more complicated machineries are required. To achieve that, the technique to bring the size of electronic devices down to a smaller scale proves to be necessary.   
Not only in robot designs, many other electronic devices, computers, memory storage, medical equipment, and so on, now share same necessity. Such necessity has been bringing down the size of electronic devices for the past half a century, and this tendency is likely to keep taking place for several decades. Just like Dr. G. Allan and his colleges mentioned in his articles, there is a continuous exponential tendency of microelectronics towards miniaturization which will eventually lead to nanoelectronics (G. Allan, C. Delerue, C. Krzeminski, 2013). This memo aims to discuss the background and different approaches of nanoelectronics, and eventually the potential future of the subject. 

Background: developments of electronics
Silicon has been the one and only material of semiconductor, which is the essential material of electronic devices, ever since the discovery of electronics. The key to approach nanoelectronics is to figure out how to bring down semiconductors to the nanometer level. An advance in silicon technology has been taken place at exponential rates in both performance and productivity throughout the past four decades. From 1960 to 2010, the energy transfer associated with a binary switching transition—the canonical digital computing operation—decreased by about five orders of magnitude and the number of transistors per chip increased by about nine orders of magnitude. (J. Meindl 2015) Using silicon as semiconductor, scientists have successfully lowered the scale of semiconductors to the micrometer level. However, semiconductors in electronic devices can still be much smaller to reach their physical limits, which is on the nanometer scale, i.e. the nanoelectronics. 

Discussion: major approaches to nanoelectronics
To achieve the goal of nanoelectronics, scientists and engineers have come up the following approaches. 

Nanofabrication:
The first and most obvious idea was to simply reducing the size of metal oxide semiconductors (MOS), because recent experiments have indicated that the size of MOS such as silicon semiconductors can still be much smaller to reach their physical limits.
This huge separation is the result of the large interconnect capacitance that must be charged or discharged during a binary transition and the relatively large binary signal swing of 0.5 V. This amount of signal swing is necessary for large drive currents, leading to small circuit propagation delays and hence 10-GHz clock frequencies. These data implies that after four decades of rapid advances in both the performance and productivity of silicon semiconductor technology, a systematic assessment of its hierarchy of physical limits reveals an enormous remaining potential to advance from current multibillion transistor chips to the multitrillion transistor range of terascale integration.( J. Meindl 2015)
Other than the idea of using traditional material, metal oxide, there have been other approaches that uses completely new materials. 

Nanotube:
Although theoretically the size of MOS can still be much smaller, the thermal structure of MOS would unlikely be able to withstand the heat produced by the conductance when massive power is applied. In other words, nanometric MOS would be perfectly functional when it’s applied in computer chips where no massive energy is involved; but once the energy of electronic devices reaches a certain lever, nanometric MOS has been proven to be likely to fail. Like Dr. Allan said, it is thus necessary to prepare new solutions if one wants to pursue the trend of nanoelectronics further. ( G. Allan, C. Delerue, C. Krzeminski, 2013) And the approach of nanotube seems to be a solid effort.  
Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are allotropes of carbon with a cylindrical nanostructure. Nanotubes have been constructed with length-to-diameter ratio of up to 132,000,000:1, significantly larger than for any other material. These cylindrical carbon molecules have unusual properties, which are valuable for nanotechnology, electronics, optics and other fields of materials science and technology. In particular, owing to their extraordinary thermal conductivity and mechanical and electrical properties, carbon nanotubes find applications as additives to various structural materials. (J. Goicoechea. 2007) 
Besides being small and allowing more transistors to be packed into a single chip, experiments recorded in Dr. Goiceochea’s article indicate that the uniform and symmetrical structure of nanotube electrics allows a higher electron mobility (faster electron movement in the material), a higher dielectric constant (faster frequency), and a symmetrical electron/hole characteristic. Other than being an incredible semiconductor material, there has been inference that carbon nanotube also has other valuable property in the aspect of physical integrity and damage induration. 

Carbon nanotubes are the strongest and stiffest materials yet discovered in terms of tensile strength and elastic modulus respectively.

Standard single-walled carbon nanotubes can withstand a pressure up to 25 GPa without [plastic/permanent] deformation.

All nanotubes are expected to be very good thermal conductors along the tube, exhibiting a property known as "ballistic conduction", but good insulators laterally to the tube axis. (J. Goicoechea. 2007)

In summon, nanoelectronics has been recognized as one of the most fascinating materials in the field of nanoelectronics with a promising future. 

Molecular Electronics:
Single molecule devices are another possibility of nanoelectronics. These schemes would make heavy use of molecular self-assembly, designing the device components to construct a larger structure or even a complete system on their own. Because single molecules constitute the smallest stable structures imaginable, this miniaturization is the ultimate goal for shrinking electrical circuits. Dr. A. Aviram indicated that such features can be very useful for reconfigurable computing, and may even completely replace present FPGA technology. (Aviram. 1998)
However, how to supply the significant amount of energy due to charging and electron transfer has been proven to be a great challenge, which is why many scientists consider molecular electronics as a method which is effective and useful and way too expensive electrically, economically and environmentally. 

Other Approach:
While nanotube, molecular electronics and nanofabrication has shown promising potential in the future, there has been other approaches as well, such as nanoparticle, nanoionics, nanophotonics and so on. 

Although there are various ways towards nanoelectronics, each approach has its own corresponding field of application. For instance, nanofabrication is mostly applied in computer chips while carbon nanotube is used in some experimental medical facilities. 

Future implication: what will nanoelectronics become
There is little doubt that nanoelectronic devices will replace most of electronic devices we have today, for it is faster and more useful in various ways. People predict that nanoelectronics will not only be utilized in computers and memory storage, but also in radios, novel optoelectronic devices and energy production. 

Conclusion:
In the 21st century, the world is becoming more and more crowded and populated. Soon enough we won’t have much space as we used to. Hence, the focus of contemporary technology study has been shifted to bring all our devices to a smaller scale and eventually to the nanometer level. Many scientists believe nanoelectronics is the key to that goal. After decades of study we’ve already made some progress in the field but there is still much more to discover. This technology is still immature nowadays, and it requires the attention of future scientists and engineers such as us. 
 
References:
1.	Goicoechea, J.; Zamarreñoa, C.R.; Matiasa, I.R.; Arregui, F.J. (2007). "Minimizing the photobleaching of self-assembled multilayers for sensor applications". Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical 126 (1): 41–47. doi:10.1016/j.snb.2006.10.037.
2.	G. Allan_, C. Delerue, C. Krzeminski, (2013). “Nanoelectronics”
3.	James D. Meindl, Qiang Chen, Jeffrey A. Davis. (2015). “Limits on Silicon Nanoelectronics for Terascale Integration”. Science Vol 293, Issue 553714 September 2015 
4.	Aviram, A. (1998). "Molecules for memory, logic, and amplification". Journal of the American Chemical Society 110 (17): 5687–5692
